---
title: Creating a task via API
layout: default
followup:
  links:
    monitor-task-status: Monitor a Task's Status
---

# Creating a Task via API

This step will show you how to create a task, as well as how to fetch
both state and artifacts from the task. Later tutorials will show you how to
listen for the events generated by task and how to combine this with custom
routes message.

---
import SchemaTable from 'taskcluster-ui/components/SchemaTable'

## Constructing a Task Definition

To create a task we must construct a _task definition_, the API [reference
documentation](/docs/reference/platform/queue/api) for the
Queue service specifies a JSON schema for the `queue.createTask` method.  The
payload for that method is:

<SchemaTable schema="/schemas/queue/v1/create-task-request.json#" />

As evident from the schema there are a few _required_ properties, such as:
`provisionerId`, `workerType`, `created`, `deadline`, `payload` and `metadata`.
The rest of the properties are optional and defaults should be documented.  It
should, however, be noted that default values may change over time, so it is
recommended provide those you rely on. More information about these fields and
on tasks in general are available in the [manual](/docs/manual).

All tasks have a `workerType` and `provisionerId` which together uniquely
identify the pool of workers you are submitting you task to. In practice the
`provisionerId` is embedded in scopes, such that different provisioners can
exist without interfering with each other. For the purpose of this tutorial we
shall use the `tutorial` workerType from `aws-provisioner-v1`.

A task definition also includes a `created` timestamp which must be the current
time; and a `deadline` at which point the _queue_ will resolve the task as
`exception` unless the task has been resolved earlier. This ensures that all
tasks will eventually be resolved.  Timestamps are given in UTC as ISO 8601
formatted strings, the format which `Date.toJSON()` returns. As evident below,
`taskcluster-client` has some nice utilities for constructing relative
timestamps for this.

Let's get started with a JavaScript script to create a task, starting with just
the task definition:

```
let taskcluster = require('taskcluster-client');

let payload = {}; // worker specific payload - we'll add it later
let task = {
  // Required properties
  provisionerId:      'aws-provisioner-v1',
  workerType:         'tutorial',
  created:            (new Date()).toJSON(),  // or taskcluster.fromNowJSON('0 seconds')
  deadline:           taskcluster.fromNowJSON('2 days 3 hours'),
  metadata: {
    // Name and description are meant to be written in markdown
    name:             "Tutorial **Example** Task",
    description:      "Task create from _interactive_ tutorials",
    // Fill in your email
    owner:            'nobody@taskcluster.net',
    // Location of task source for tihs task
    source:           "https://taskcluster.example.com/docs/tutorial/create-task-via-api",
  },
  payload:            payload,

  // There are more optional properties, but we don't need them here.
};

// Print example task definition
console.log(JSON.stringify(task, null, 2));
```

To run this, you will need `taskcluster-client` installed.  Let's install a few
other libraries too, that will be useful later:

```
npm install taskcluster-client superagent
```

In the example above you see how to specify the properties required by the
queue. If we were to submit this task to the queue it would be accepted,
however, the worker would immediately reject it because it doesn't carry a
valid `task.payload`.

---

## Constructing a task payload for docker-worker

The `tutorial` workerType is a deployment of `docker-worker`, this worker
requires a `task.payload` that specifies which _docker image_ to load, which
command to run and a maximum allowed runtime. You can find detailed
documentation in the [reference
section](/docs/reference/workers/docker-worker/payload).

<SchemaTable schema="/schemas/docker-worker/v1/payload.json" />

For the `image` property, we can pick any docker image, either a pre-defined
image or one you have created yourself. There are many benefits to using custom
docker images; notable ones include:

 * Install dependencies from package repositories and lock them,
 * Make custom scripts and binaries available in the runtime environment, and
 * Test docker images locally before deploying to Taskcluster.

There are many other benefits to docker, but an exhaustive list is beyond the
scope of this document. If you are not familiar with docker you should play
around with the official docker
[getting started guide](http://docs.docker.com/linux/started/). Deploying Linux
binaries in tasks on Taskcluster is mostly about getting the binaries to run
inside a docker container. For the most part this involves installing
dependencies and configuring them, so become familiar with docker before you
start deploying Linux tasks on Taskcluster.

For the purpose of this tutorial we'll use the official `ubuntu:latest` docker
image. To make it interesting we'll run two commands, `ls && du /usr`, that
should show us a little of what the image contains. Add the following payload
to the script:
to add a payload to the task definition from before.

```
let payload = {
  // Properties required by docker-worker
  image:            'ubuntu:latest',
  command:          ['/bin/bash', '-c', 'ls && du /usr'],
  maxRunTime:       600, // in seconds (600s = 10 minutes)
  // Optional properties
  artifacts: {
    // Export an artifact with the name "public/passwd.txt" and
    // take it from '/etc/passwd' after the task has run.
    "public/passwd.txt": {
      type:         'file',
      path:         '/etc/passwd',
      expires:      taskcluster.fromNowJSON('2 months')
    }
  }
};
```

To make things a little interesting the example above also exports the file
`/etc/passwd` as an artifact with the name `public/passwd.txt`. It should be
noted that all artifact names that start with `public/` are public and
accessing them doesn't require any credentials.

---

## Creating a Task

All tasks have a `taskId` this is
[UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier), version 4.
To better fit these UUIDs into URLs, RabbitMQ routing keys and many other
places we always encode them in [URL-safe
base64](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648#section-5) stripped of `==` padding.
This yields a 22 character identifier like `a8_YezW8T7e1jLxG7evy-A`.

We call an identifier on this form a _slugid_, and in Javascript we can generate
them using the `slugid()` method of the `taskcluster-client` module. Being
based on UUIDv4, the risk of `taskId` collision is extremely small. In
fact if you encounter an error telling you that a given `taskId` is already
used by another task, it is most likely a problem with your retry logic that
fails to make idempotent requests, or you accidentally reused the `taskId`. The
example below shows how to generate a random slugid for use as `taskId`.

```
let taskcluster = require('taskcluster-client');

// Generate a new taskId
let taskId = taskcluster.slugid();

// Print the taskId
console.log("Randomly generated taskId: " + taskId);
```

When we have a `taskId` and a _task definition_, we are ready to create a task.
In the example below we'll use the existing `task` and `taskId`.  Then we
construct a `taskcluster.Queue` client, using the temporary credentials stored
in environment variables in the last step, and finally create a new task using
the `queue.createTask(taskId, payload)` method.

```
let taskcluster = require('taskcluster-client');

let payload = {
  // Properties required by docker-worker
  image:            'ubuntu:latest',
  command:          ['/bin/bash', '-c', 'ls && du /usr'],
  maxRunTime:       600, // in seconds (600s = 10 minutes)
  // Optional properties
  artifacts: {
    // Export an artifact with the name "public/passwd.txt" and
    // take it from '/etc/passwd' after the task has run.
    "public/passwd.txt": {
      type:         'file',
      path:         '/etc/passwd',
      expires:      taskcluster.fromNowJSON('2 months')
    }
  }
};

let task = {
  // Required properties
  provisionerId:      'aws-provisioner-v1',
  workerType:         'tutorial',
  created:            (new Date()).toJSON(),  // or taskcluster.fromNowJSON('0 seconds')
  deadline:           taskcluster.fromNowJSON('2 days 3 hours'),
  metadata: {
    // Name and description are meant to be written in markdown
    name:             "Tutorial **Example** Task",
    description:      "Task create from _interactive_ tutorials",
    // Fill in your email
    owner:            'nobody@taskcluster.net',
    // Location of task source for tihs task
    source:           "https://taskcluster.example.com/docs/tutorial/create-task-via-api",
  },
  payload:            payload,

  // There are more optional properties, but we don't need them here.
};

let runTask = async () => {
  // Generate a new taskId
  let taskId = taskcluster.slugid();

  // Create a Queue client object using $TASKCLUSTER_CLIENT_ID and
  // $TASKCLUSTER_ACCESS_TOKEN
  let queue = new taskcluster.Queue();

  // Create task
  let result = await queue.createTask(taskId, task);

  console.log("Created task:\n" + JSON.stringify(result.status, null, 2));
  console.log("Inspect it at:");
  console.log("https://tc.example.com/tasks/" + taskId);
}

runTask().catch(console.error);
```

Note that it may take a few minutes for this task to execute, as Taskcluster must
create a new Amazon EC2 instance to run it.

If you are curious about the `createTask(taskId, payload)` method you can look
it up in the [API docs](/docs/reference/platform/queue/reference/api-docs/) for the Queue. You should notice that
the API docs lists a `Signature` property, like
`Signature: createTask(taskId, payload) : result`. These signatures are used to
call methods in automatically generated client libraries. This allows for
consistent and well-documented client libraries across all platforms.

