* @taskcluster/core

services/auth @djmitche
services/events @djmitche
services/github @owlishDeveloper
services/hooks @djmitche
services/index @djmitche
services/login @djmitche
services/notify @imbstack
services/purge-cache @imbstack
services/queue @jhford
services/secrets @djmitche
services/treeherder @imbstack

libraries/eslint-config @owlishDeveloper
libraries/client @jhford
libraries/api @imbstack
libraries/app @imbstack
libraries/azure @djmitche
libraries/docs @imbstack
libraries/iterate @jhford
libraries/loader @imbstack
libraries/monitor @imbstack
libraries/pulse @djmitche
libraries/references @djmitche
libraries/scopes @djmitche
libraries/testing @djmitche
libraries/validate @imbstack
libraries/typed-env-config @imbstack

