# Infrastructure

Tools and packages that are used to run a deployment of Taskcluster.

## Kubernetes

### Using

Helm chart is being autogenerated by `yarn generate` command. It can be found in [k8s](./k8s/) folder.

Templates are being generated with json-e from [tooling/templates/k8s/](./tooling/templates/k8s/) sources for each service and resource type.

Generated files should be fed to `helm template` using `dev-config.yml` values file to produce valid kubernetes yaml files.
`yarn dev:apply` does this automatically and applies its output with the help of `kubectl` command.

#### Pod annotations

Use `podAnnotations` to apply annotations to every Taskcluster Deployment and CronJob pod:

```yaml
podAnnotations:
  karpenter.sh/do-not-disrupt: "true"
```

Annotations can also be set for one service process. Keys from both maps are retained; when the same key appears in both maps, the process value takes precedence:

```yaml
podAnnotations:
  example.com/global: foo
  karpenter.sh/do-not-disrupt: "true"

queue:
  procs:
    claimResolver:
      podAnnotations:
        example.com/process: bar
        karpenter.sh/do-not-disrupt: "false"
```

The `claimResolver` pods receive `example.com/global: foo`, `example.com/process: bar`, and `karpenter.sh/do-not-disrupt: "false"`. Other pods receive the global annotations.

Annotation values must be strings. This configuration targets a workload's pod template, so it applies to every pod created for that process; Helm cannot annotate only one replica of a Deployment.

A value in the YAML can be either a literal string or it can be a placeholder for a value helm will substitute. The latter all start with `.Values.`.

> Note: keep in mind that helm templates are autogenerated from the yaml source using `json-e`. Because of this, it is currently not possible to used advanced Helm (go) templating like flow control, because it is not a valid YAML, and json-e would fail to process such files.
> If you need to use more go template features, you will need to create custom replacements inside [k8s.js](./tooling/src/generate/generators/k8s.js) generator

### Updating

To apply any change to the templates, you should only modify files inside `tooling/templates/k8s` folder and use `yarn generate` to produce resulting `k8s/templates` files.

Occasionally you might need to introduce new values. `k8s/values.schema.json` contains the schema and is also autogenerated by the [k8s.js](./tooling/src/generate/generators/k8s.js) generator. Change the schema as needed and run `yarn generate` to create updated templates and schema files.

To debug templates and see how they will look rendered you can run `yarn dev:templates` and then open `taskcluster.k8s.yml` file to inspect.
